>> Will Sentance: What are the names we
can call this backpack that we've given
new function, so
that it has a permanent memory.
I love that,
I love it now when we run that function,
it's got this little temporary
local memory sure, but
it's also this little permanent
memory attached to it.
Two memories,
two stores of data behave differently,
one individually to each function
being each function call.
The other protected and preserved and
available to every function call to
new function by what you might
will be thinking, hold on.
How does this fit into
our functional goals?
Well, I'll tell you in a second, but
what are the fancy names of the backpack?
They're really fancy.
So, there is this.
This is data, it is persistent,
it persists as long as
it's function is saved.
If we were to delete this function,
the backpack gets deleted.
If we were to reassign this function,
which we couldn't do with a const
declaration anyway, but
it would be deleted.
But it's persistent data, okay fine,
the data is referenced
by a scope property.
What does scope mean?
Scope is the fancy name in programming for
any given line of my code,
what data do I have
access to at that point?
Just a fancy word for when I do this line,
when I run this line what
data is available to me?
So, this is the data, which when I run
new function, it has available to it.
So, it's good but
it's a special type of scope.
Here, the data I have available to me,
is the data that was
available to me when that function
was initially saved in memory.
When it was initially saved,
the date around.
Forever more that function will
have access to that data, why?
Because it's going to pull it out
along with it wherever it goes.
And that is known as lexical or
static scope.
It is fixed, it's static, it's fixed from
when we save the function is lexical,
in the sense that where we position
the saving of the function on the page
determines what data is available
whenever we end up running the function.
As contrasted to dynamic scope, which says
the only data that will be available to
when you run a function is a data that's
there when you're running the function.
Instead, here, the data that is available
to us is a data from when the function was
initially saved,
because we pull the function out, and
we brought the data with it.
So, we can call this,
you want to get really fancy?
Persistent lexical scope referenced data,
another name for
it, slightly less verbose, but
by the way you say this in interviews.
[SOUND] They're going to
roll the red carpet out.
They're going to, I mean the truth is I
comments injuries again because people
want video now comments, enjoys.
But they're going to give you their job.
So, there it is, position let's see,
so reference data but
there's another name for it,
which is, this local memory
can sometimes also be known as
the variable, this is one name for it.
The variable environment.
That is to say the environment
is stuff around me, right?
And these are the variables
around me inside that function.
We said this earlier.
We talk about that variable
environment being closed over.
We grab it, hold on to it and
return it out.
They call this backpack,
also the closed over variable
environment or the cove.
Do you see now why I call it?
I think, it's the best name,
the backpack, what a name.
[INAUDIBLE] but
developers colloquially tend to call this
persistent memory attached to
our function definition when it
was born inside the running
of another function.
And returned out and grabbed all its
data that should have been deleted, but
instead is attached on the back
of the function, persistent.
They call this backpack, the closure.
I love the name because, they also
call the overall concept closure.
But you'll hear developers,
which is being ambiguous.
You'll here developers say,
put that data in the functions closure.
And people this ends up being
used everywhere in JavaScript.
When you pass a function to
an asynchronous call back into
an asynchronous API call,
you pass that function in.
When it ends up being
able to run later on go,
what's the hard parts of Asynchronous
JavaScript, when has been running wrong,
it has always data from when it was born.
Where?
In the backpack.
My favorite one, generators, generators
have functions that are plausible and
not possible.
You just remembered when you finish
running, when you start running them,
you remembered what line you were on and
all the data at that point in
the local memory in that backpack.
So, when you started again, you grab
all the data and the code line you
wanted the function, continue running and
grab the data in the backpack.
They don't rate it where you run
a function to enable you to each time
you run the function, get data out
of an array element by element.
You've seen it's rated the first time
around the function it grabs the first
item from the array returns out next time,
next element, next time, next element.
How's it remembering where
it's at in the array?
The function has stood,
counter on which elements its own
in his backpack, and
the underlying data as well.
For these dominate, and
we're going to use it in
functional programming in very,
very powerful ways.
>> Charles: Is closure synonymous with
lexical scope, or closures is the larger?
>> Will Sentance: That's the thing, people
who I think are ambiguously developers
call the overall concept, closure.
I personally as a really great question
is actually literally as my favorite
way to say.
Thank you, Charles.
I like to say, lexical scoping is
the concept that functions get
a connection to their surrounding
memory in which they were saved.
You then wherever you end
up running that function,
wherever you end up passing that function,
moving it around your application.
It always brings with it.
I say backpack, but that's due to
the lexical scope feature of JavaScript,
which is that functions immediately get
a scope reference in their surrounding
variable environment and
pull that out wherever you go.
Lexical scope is the feature of
the programming language that keeps data
attached the function of where it saved.
Closure is this ambiguous
wooly term that refers to,
it's used to refer to the backpack.
It's used to refer to
the lexical scoping principle.
And it's used to refer to
the whole thing together.
So, I think,
lexical scope is a really good name to
describe the feature that
enables the backpack to exist.
Yeah, very nice question, Eric.
>> Eric: How does nesting affect-
>> Will Sentance: Yeah.
>> Eric: What's included in the backpack,
you got another layer of nesting?
>> Will Sentance: Sure,
backpacks get passed along,
they are permanently
attached to the function.
Go play with how that works layers in,
but yeah, it's as you expect.
Sam.
>> Sam: Okay so, because closure
can mean the thing that's being
closed over or the technique of closing,
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, and
the principle that enables
that closing to happen, right?
Yeah.
>> Sam: I have tended toward using
closure to refer to the technique
whereas context is the term
that I tend to use for
lexical scoping, is that incorrect?
>> Will Sentance: I wouldn't say is
incorrect then, [INAUDIBLE] correct.
I would just say people will use context
also wait for it, to refer to a functions,
this keyword assignment,
which is another totally different thing.
So, it's enough that,
whenever you sort of agree with your team,
you use to refer to these things,
you're fine.
But I would argue that because people use
the word, context, often to refer to this,
this keyword assignment inside a function,
execution context.
I think context is too general a term,
usually.
>> Sam: Execution context would
clarify that, and be more appropriate,
or it's still wrong?
>> Will Sentance: But
execution context is both the memory and
the fact that the threat is currently
running that code, whereas, we just taking
the local memory the variable environment
and closing over it and persisting it.
This is the execution context,
it's the local memory plus the thread.
This is not an execution context,
this is just the persisted local memory.
>> Sam: The backpack.
>> Will Sentance: Very nice of you Sam,
the backpack.
Seth?
>> Seth: We've got a whole bunch of
expensive work inside outer, and it's not
referenced inside increment counter, that
does not come along inside the backpack.
>> Will Sentance: When
you say expense work,
you mean if we saved like
massive arrays of arrays.
>> Seth: Yeah
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
no it's all left behind unless
the returned out function.
And you can recount a now newFunction
makes reference to all of that
expensive work.
In which case, you want it to be there
because otherwise you could try to refer
to it inside of newFunction and
it's gone, which would be bad.
Closure in functional JavaScript,
easier to add features.
Our functions can now have persistent
permanent memories attached to them.
It's going to make them
dramatically more powerful.
Easy to do both,
[SOUND] I don't know, definitely not.
Unless, you know how it's
working under the hood.
Now, there's something I want to say here,
in functional programming,
we want every function
called to be independent.
Meaning, if I'm running this function,
and then I'm running it again,
and it's got a permanent memory,
even if it can encapsulate,
well, I shouldn't say that, protected
inside the function execution context.
I'm still basically making my functions,
I can't look at them and know they're
going to behave exactly the same way.
And that line is, [INAUDIBLE] the line,
and I can't look at them and go,
[SOUND], fantastic.
I know exactly what function is doing,
because it's got to be
not global side effects,
still a degree of side effects.
There's two things to say about this.
In the strict implementation of
functional programming, sorry, closure
in functional programming, we actually
fix this data that it can't be changed.
And therefore, all we really have
is a permanent, persistent store of
data here that we're never
interacting with again, and changing.
Meaning, but we'll come to this
in a bit more detail in a moment,
meaning our functions are all still pure.
But I also want to say in general,
functional programming is going to be
an aspiration, especially in JavaScript.
It's not strictly implemented
in JavaScript end to end.
Meaning, even if we don't perfectly
conform to every single piece of it,
even this move that makes
our functions more useful.
It still leaves themselves contain
they're not affecting global memory,
it's still protected.
This is still moving in the direction
of functional programming.
All right, so
let's take a pair programming break,
where you're now going to start
jumping into the closure challenges.